---
layout: page
subheadline: "Reading"
title: "Facebook Emotional Interaction"
teaser: "When Technologies manipulate our Emotions"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "facebook-banner.png"
    caption: Image by Ticket Synergy
    caption_url: "/"
image:
    thumb:  fb-thumb.png
    homepage: Facebook-Emotional-Manipulation.jpg
categories:
    - Reading
comments: true
show_meta: false
---

Nowadays, social media become an important role in people’s life. Facebook, instagram, twitter is only some of the social media products. By using with those applications, people have the chance to share their personal data every day. The content of the posts can have a large variety of contents. People can share any information that they want to share such as their personal life, relational status, their emotional state and even their political views. However, too much information becomes irritating for people who are using social media, especially same posts and content includes violence.

The important part of this process, the algorithm for which information should be provided to users. Too much data have been always a problem for designers and end users. On the designer's perspective, designers try not to show so many shared posts. Those posts could be a reason for capacity and performance issues. On the other hand, on the customer perspective, users get bothered to see posts have included violence, vandalism, bad words, un-motivational posts can affect peoples physical condition. Designers came up with a solution to solve this problem with feed filtering. Many social media use algorithms to show posts in their feeds according to their content, people who shared (close friends) and emotions in the posts. However, deciding a correct algorithm to show shared posts with the wanted content is still a problematic issue. Facebook filters messages in Newsfeeds, because it is not possible or practical to show all updates. And according to researchers, Facebook uses an algorithm to classify posts to emotionally positive or negative content.

In my opinion, I found this algorithm to show the content of the shared posts is helpful for people who are using Facebook. People are using Facebook to gather information about daily basis, people that know from their life, and spending pleasure time. This is the key point of the social media. Hence, classifying the content of the posts help people to see more motivational content. Of course, that doesn’t mean always show funny kitty videos. Facebook also gives a chance for people to customization of the Facebook feeds. In that manner, people have chance to every shared post see in their feeds for a specific content. Facebook also suggests a content that you like during your usage. With the help of this working principle, I found this approach plausible.

With the changing technology, there are so many ways to gather information about the emotional states of people. Social media, smart phones, and smart watches are some of the highlights of the today’s technology. The applications such as beat stress can monitor user’s emotional state. Smart watches are the new way collecting information from people who are using. By analyzing the person’s location, weather, noise levels of environmental and e-mails and phone calls can make a statistical data for the person’s emotional state. This is the best development for people have stress in their lives.

With the changing technology, there are so many ways to gather information about the emotional states of people. Social media, smartphones, and smart watches are some of the highlights of the today’s technology. The applications such as beat stress can monitor user’s emotional state. Smart watches are the new way collecting information from people who are using. By analyzing the person’s location, weather, noise levels of environmental and e-mails and phone calls can make a statistical data for the person’s emotional state.  This is the best development for people have stress in their lives. This product can be improved towards to getting emotional level of the people and according to their level of emotion, providing a solution with content, giving motivational examples and words and even blocking calls and emails for a while.  

Emotion sensing is another smartphone application for mood tracking. People have a chance to log their emotional state with daily and weekly basis. Using smartphones accelerometer and GPS creates a pattern to how much time spent in areas and what is the emotional state of people during this period. I have a chance to use this application for a month. I believe, this could be integrated with the social media and calendar of the smartphone.

To sum up, manipulating of the peoples emotional state for a motivational side is helpful for future. With the changing technology, the content of the posts and classifying the true content will be enhanced.

<h5><em>REFERENCES</em></h5>
- <cite>["When Technologies Manipulate our Emotions", by Calvo, Peters, D’Mello, Comm ACM, 58(11), 41-42, November 2015][1]</cite>
- <cite>[Smartphone app that claims to beat stress and can monitor the user's emotional state, Retrieved from Internet Nov 23, 2015.][2]</cite>

[1]:https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiL983Qx93JAhWi93IKHUqlDSkQFggcMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fcacm.acm.org%2Fmagazines%2F2015%2F11%2F193334-when-technologies-manipulate-our-emotions%2Ffulltext&usg=AFQjCNGQbG8FdyPfxa85OD64wrR67zqlUQ&sig2=77abj4Ms9L6dWNE55XlGfw
[2]:http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2299179/Smartphone-app-claims-beat-stress-monitor-users-emotional-state.html
