---
layout: page
subheadline: "Books should be read by everyone"
title: "146 books Ilker Karamanli thinks everyone should read"
teaser: "I've put together a list of my picks and why I think everyone should read them"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "header_unsplash_8.jpg"
    caption: 
    caption_url: "/"
image:
    thumb:  books_thumb.jpg
    homepage: books_main.jpg
categories:
    - Reading
comments: true
show_meta: true
---

Books are deeply personal things. Each of us form unique bonds with the characters we read about, relate to storylines and personalities in different ways. 

1. Making the Modern World: Materials and Dematerialization by Vaclav Smil
2. Stress Test: Reflections on Financial Crises by Tim Geithner
3. The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined by Steven Pinker
4. The Man Who Fed the World by Leon Hesser
5. The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism by Doris Kearns Goodwin
6. The Rosie Project: A Novel by Graeme Simsion
7. On Immunity by Eula Biss
8. How Asia Works by Joe Studwell
9. How to Lie with Statistics by Darrell Huff
10. Epic Measures by Jeremy Smith
11. Stuff Matters by Mark Miodownik
12. Hyperbole and a Half by Allie Brosh
13. What If? by Randall Munroe
14. Should We Eat Meat? by Vaclav Smil
15. Talk like teds Carmine Gallo
16. Asteroid Hunters
17. Payoff
18. The Boiling River
19. The Great Questions of Tomorrow
20. When Strangers Meet
21. The Terrorist's Son, by Zak Ebrahim with Jeff Giles
22. The Mathematics of Love, by Hannah Fry
23. The Art of Stillness, by Pico Iyer
24. The Future of Architecture in 100 Buildings, by Marc Kushner
25. Beyond Measure, by Margaret Heffernan
26. Judge This, by Chip Kidd
27. How We'll Live on Mars, by Stephen Petranek
28. Why We Work, by Barry Schwartz
29. The Laws of Medicine, Siddhartha Mukherjee
30. Follow Your Gut, by Rob Knight with Brendan Buhler
31. The Long Tail: Why the Future of Business is Selling Less of More
32. TED Talks: The Official TED Guide to Public Speaking
33. The Long Tail from SmarterComics: Why the Future of Selling is Less of …
34. Tap Dancing to Work: Warren Buffett on Practically Everything, 1966-2012 by Carol Loomis
35. Making the Modern World: Materials and Dematerialization by Vaclav Smil
36. The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History by Elizabeth Kolbert
37. Stress Test: Reflections on Financial Crises by Tim Geithner
38. The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined by Steven Pinker
39. The Man Who Fed the World by Leon Hesser
40. Business Adventures: Twelve Classic Tales from the World of Wall Street by John Brooks
41. The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism by Doris Kearns Goodwin
42. The Rosie Project: A Novel by Graeme Simsion
43. On Immunity by Eula Biss
44. How Asia Works by Joe Studwell
45. How to Lie with Statistics by Darrell Huff
46. Epic Measures by Jeremy Smith
47. Stuff Matters by Mark Miodownik
48. Hyperbole and a Half by Allie Brosh
49. What If? by Randall Munroe
50. Should We Eat Meat? by Vaclav Smil
51. Daniel Coleman - Social Inteligence
52. Daniel Coleman - Emotional Intelligence
53. Our dilerim Anne glum Bir Adam aşık - Aştan Adam
54. Daedalus or science and the future by j. b. s. Haldane
55. Gulseren Budaycıoglu Kral Kaybederse
56. Evinizdeki therapist -
57. Iyi hissetmek - Dr. David Burns
58. Hayatı yeniden keşfedin
59. “Man’s Search for Meaning” by Victor Frankl
60. “Antifragile” by Nassim Taleb (and “The Black Swan” and “Fooled by Randomness” by him)
61. “Tiny Beautiful Things” by Cheryl Strayed
62. “Master of Love” by Don Miguel Ruiz
63. “Anything You Want” by Derek Sivers
64. “Mindset” by Carol Dweck
65. “Between the World and Me” by Ta-Nehisi Coates
66. “Sapiens” by Yuval something.
67. “The Four Agreements” by Don Miguel Ruiz
68. “Old Man and the Sea” by Ernest Hemingway
69. “Jesus’ Son” by Denis Johnson (a collection of short stories, not a religious book)
70. “The Rational Optimist” by Matt Ridley (and the Evolution of Everything by him)
71. “Bold” by Peter D. and Steven Kotler
72. “Outliers” by Malcolm Gladwell
73. “Peak” by Anders Ericsson
74. “The Surrender Experiment” by Michael Singer (along with The Untethered Soul by him)
75. “Confessions of a Buddhist Atheist” by Stephen Batchelor
76. “Mastery” by Robert Greene
77. “Zero to One” by Peter Thiel
78. “War of Art” by Stephen Pressfield (and “Turning Pro“)
79. “Post Office” by Charles Bukowski
80. “Purple Cow” by Seth Godin
81. “Maus” by Art Spiegelman
82. “On Writing” by Stephen King
83. “How We Got to Now” by Stephen Johnson (and his book on ideas)
84. “Creativity, Inc” by Ed Catmull
85. “Sick in the Head” by Judd Apatow
86. “Born Standing Up” by Steve Martin
87. “The Power of Now” by Eckhart Tolle (and “Practicing the Power of Now” by him)
88. “5 Love Languages” by Gary Chapman
89. “How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World” by Harry Browne
90. “Slaughterhouse Five” by Kurt Vonnegut
91. “A Million Little Pieces” by James Frey
92. “To Kill A Mockingbird” by Harper Lee
93. “What We Talk About When We talk about Running” by Haruki Murakami
94. “The Stranger” by Albert Camus
95. “The Alchemist” by Paulo Coehlo
96. “The Blue Zones” by Dan Buettner
97. “The New Evolution Diet” by Art Devany
98. “Poking the Dead Frog” by Mike Sacks
99. “Socrates” by Paul Johnson
100. “Small Victories” by Anne Lamott
101. “Meet Your Happy Chemicals” by Lorette Breuning
102. Brian de half - lovability - How to build a business that people love and be happy doing it
103. What got you here won’t get you there - Marshall goldsmith
104. Being direct - letter wunderman
105. Homodeus - Yuval Noah harrari
106. Destokovski - budala
107. Ernest Hemingway kadınsız erkekler
108. Iknanın psikolojisi - Robert B. Cialdini
109. Karar Anı - Jonah Lehrer
110. Dürtme - Richard H. Thaler / Cass R. Sunstein
111. Ugurbatı sinaps - beynimizin ve kararlarımızın
112. The Four Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss
113.  Zero To One by Peter Thiel
114. Antifragile by Nassim Taleb
115. Think Like A Freak by Freakonomics
116. The Freaks Shall Inherit the Earth by Chris Brogan
117. Steal Like An Artist by Austin Kleon
118. Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook by Gary Vaynerchuk
119.  I Hope They Serve Beer In Hell by Tucker Max
120. Play It Away by Charlie Hoehn
121. I Will Teach You To Be Rich by Ramit Sethi
122. Thrive by Arianna Huffington
123. Drop Dead Healthy by AJ Jacobs
124. Mastery By Robert Greene
125. Unlabel by Marc Ecko
126.  The Obstacle Is The Way by Ryan Holiday
127. 10% Happier by Dan Harris
128. Smartcuts by Shane Snow
129. The Happiness of Pursuit by Chris Guillebeau
130. The Promise of a Pencil by Adam Braun
131. Cookin’ With Coolio by Coolio
132. Wool by Hugh Howey
133.  I Can See Clearly Now by Wayne Dyer
134. How To Fail at Everything & Still Win Big by Scott Adams
135. Creativity For Sale by Jason SurfrApp
136. How To Succeed in Business Without Really Crying by Carol Leifer
137. Waking Up by Sam Harris
138. Traction: A Startup Guide To Getting Customers by Gabriel Weinberg
139.  The Bulletproof Diet by Dave Asprey
140. Love Yourself Like Your Life Depends On It by Kamal Ravikant
141. Truly Madly Guilty by Liane Moriatry
142. Are we smart enough to know How smart Animals are? By Frans de waal
143. The Gene: An Intimate History by Siddhartha Mukherjee
144. Patient H.M. : A Story Memory, Madness, and Family Secrets by Luke Dittrich
145. The Accidental Billionaires - Ben Mezrich
146. Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution - Steven Levy


